Add initial goals, strategy, and structural documentation (#17)
jupyter-governance/jupyter-foundation-governing-board: doc/funding/priorities.md

# Funding priorities

_We agreed upon the following areas to prioritize for funding. These were identified as critical shared needs by both the Jupyter Community as well as the Member organizations._

## Grow the contributor capacity of Jupyter

A consistent challenge within Jupyter’s community is the lack of resources and time to maintain and develop its technology and community. At the same time, Foundation Member organizations have many people who are interested in contributing, but face barriers to doing so.

By using Foundation funding to **grow the contributor capacity in the Jupyter ecosystem**, we can alleviate a key burden on Jupyter’s existing maintainers and provide an easier way for Member organizations to participate and contribute. 

### Key outcomes

> 
> 1. **Grow the number of contributors.** It is easier for any contributor, regardless of their organizational affiliation, to contribute to Jupyter and sustain their participation. We’ll measure success by recording the contributions (PRs, issue participation, etc.) that come from non-maintainers, as well as the growth in self-identified contributors over time.  

Author: ```suggestion

_These are likely not exhaustive, but are included to help us understand the kind of impact each goal should have._

1. **Grow the number of contributors.** It is easier for any contributor, regardless of their organizational affiliation, to contribute to Jupyter and sustain their participation. We’ll measure success by recording the contributions (PRs, issue participation, etc.) that come from non-maintainers, as well as the growth in self-identified contributors over time.  
```

- Fund development work on maintainer infrastructure that reduces toil and grows efficiency (e.g., improving the Jupyter Releaser technology and documentation)

## Improve the reliability, security, and consistency of Jupyter’s software

Many of Jupyter’s repositories lack the capacity needed to be considered reliable, safe, and consistent. This is due to a combination of bandwidth constraints, tooling, training, and coordination. As a result, Jupyter’s subprojects often accrue technical debt that burns out their maintainers, and that increases the variability of their outputs. Member organizations have a desire for Jupyter’s technology to be *reliable, safe, and consistent*. This allows them to confidently build their own technical dependencies on Jupyter technology and use them in production contexts.

By using Foundation funding to **improve the reliability, security, and consistency of Jupyter’s software and team practices**, we can help Jupyter community members more sustainably manage their technical and team debt, release more reliable software, and reduce the burden on user organizations that deploy this software internally.

> ### Key outcomes

Reviewer: This isn't actionable feedback for this PR, but it might be worthwhile for the technical subcommittee to think a bit more about these. I wonder if there are more. Not a blocker for this PR. Seems like a good starting point.

Author: Good point - I'll add a brief note that these are non-exhaustive. The main point is to help shape the kinds of outcomes we're talking about.

> 
> 1. **Increase contributor perception of the software quality.** Jupyter's community members are valid assessors of Jupyter’s software quality, since many are professional software engineers and because their perception influences their engagement with Jupyter. We will measure their perception of Jupyter’s software quality through community outreach efforts, such as a semi-annual survey.

Author: ```suggestion

_These are likely not exhaustive, but are included to help us understand the kind of impact each goal should have._

1. **Increase contributor perception of the software quality.** Jupyter's community members are valid assessors of Jupyter’s software quality, since many are professional software engineers and because their perception influences their engagement with Jupyter. We will measure their perception of Jupyter’s software quality through community outreach efforts, such as a semi-annual survey.
```

4. **Increase the speed of security fixes.** Security vulnerabilities are a strong concern for organizations that deploy Jupyter technology as part of shared services. Improvements to Jupyter’s overall software quality should result in faster, more efficient processes for identifying, resolving, and releasing security errors.

### Examples of how to grow software quality

- Hold events that allow subprojects to meet and co-work to solve their most pressing problems.  
- Fund contributor time to focus on security, testing coverage, etc.  
- Fund contributor time to create more consistent releases with higher-quality release notes across the project.  
- Fund development efforts to build common infrastructure for releases, documentation, and testing across the Jupyter ecosystem.  
- Fund contributor time to focus on stewarding pull-requests, with a focus on maintenance and bug fixes.  
- Fund contributor time for stewarding JEPs and encouraging productive and efficient cross-community conversation.

## Ensure that Jupyter has a reliable source of funding by developing the Jupyter Foundation 

> The funding mechanisms we define will only be effective if we can reliably engage and grow the members of the Jupyter Foundation. Doing so will require dedicated capacity to ensure that the Foundation is delivering value to its members, and to engage *prospective* members to grow the foundation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The funding mechanisms we define will only be effective if we can reliably engage and grow the members of the Jupyter Foundation. Doing so will require dedicated capacity to ensure that the Foundation is delivering value to its members and to engage *prospective* members to grow the foundation.
```

> By using Foundation funding to **develop the Foundation membership and ensure it delivers value to them**, we will increase the likelihood that our foundation’s members are engaged and satisfied with their participation. This will reduce churn and increase our chances of increasing financial resources for the project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using Foundation funding to **develop the Foundation membership and ensure it delivers value to them**, we will increase the likelihood that the Foundation’s members are engaged and satisfied with their participation. This will reduce churn and increase our chances of increasing financial resources for the project.
```

### Key outcomes

> 
> - **Jupyter Foundation members find value in their membership**. The primary goal of this group is to ensure that the members of the Jupyter Foundation are engaged, see their interests represented, and generally see value in their membership with the Jupyter Foundation.

Author: ```suggestion

_These are likely not exhaustive, but are included to help us understand the kind of impact each goal should have._

- **Jupyter Foundation members find value in their membership**. The primary goal of this group is to ensure that the members of the Jupyter Foundation are engaged, see their interests represented, and generally see value in their membership with the Jupyter Foundation.
```

- **The Jupyter Foundation has the resources it needs to accomplish its goals**. In order to ensure that the Foundation can meet its goals, the Foundation needs financial resources from its paying members. This committee also aims to grow the Foundation to a level that allows it to accomplish its goals.

### Examples of how to develop the Foundation

> - Identify the necessary roles on the Board and to sustain its operations (e.g., Treasurer, Executive Director)  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Identify the necessary roles to sustain the Foundation operations (e.g., Treasurer, Executive Director)
```
